Linus tech tips coverage of computex
2013 is powered by Western Digital our
trusted gaming gear partner is corsair
vengeance and our trusted retail partner
is NCIX calm welcome to day four of our
computex 2013 coverage powered by WD
remember guys we've got some really cool
giveaways that we're going to be doing
after the show the more you watch our
western digital content here at computex
the more we get to give away so check
out the details in the video description
you can also get fifteen percent off a
wd drive if you live in the US or in the
EU and that only lasts for a little
while here during the show so let's talk
about WD black this isn't exactly a new
concept by any stretch of the
imagination but what it is is as a three
and a half inch drive it's the only one
that's ever really been positioned as a
performance leading drive so what makes
it different from something like a blue
or what differentiated it back then it
was all about the tuning and tweaking
and things like putting in dual
processors in order to make it perform
even better at the time than an
equivalent 7200 RPM drive and this is in
lined with that concept that it's not
all about rpm because how does it
perform better if it spins at the same
speed waltz more complicated than that
so what is it black dry for well it's
for people who don't want to worry about
their drive dying for one thing it comes
with a five-year warranty which for a
consumer hard drive is actually the
highest available so you go ahead you
build yourself a system with an Asus
Tough Series board a WD black edition
drive you throw like you know I don't
know corsair Memory in there with a
lifetime warranty all of a sudden you've
got a system where you're going to have
backing for like five years on the main
components inside you don't have to
worry about them failing it's also still
the highest performance three and a half
inch consumer drive in western digital's
lineup and optimized for applications
where a lower-end hard drive isn't
really appropriate things where that
extra little bit of performance might
make a lot of sense things like a
scratch disk if you're working in Adobe
Premiere or after effects or something
along those lines and where an SSD might
not make a ton of sense like a scratch
disk I love SSD as much as the next
person you guys know that but at the end
of the day if
you're if you have you know swap files
going back and forth to them or you're
using it as a scratch and you're writing
you know 10 gigs plot our tent however
much if you're writing a ton of data to
and from your SSD all the time every day
in a workstation great environment
there's a very good chance it won't last
as long as a hard drive because they do
have an inherent limited life cycle when
it comes to rights so let's have a look
at what kind of systems you might find a
WD black in this one here is a Puget
systems gaming system it's got a four
terabyte WD black in it it should be
noted that for terabyte is the highest
capacity in western digital's desktop
lineup right now both red and green do
top out at three terabytes with blue
topping out at one terabyte and this is
well basically to optimize things like
game load times and no they're not going
to be as fast as if you put the games on
an SSD we all know this but your SSD is
probably anywhere from 60 gigs to 240
gigs if you bought it sometime in the
last few years your hard drive is
anywhere from 500 gigs to 4 terabytes
which means you can fit a lot more games
on it and here's an example of another
similar type of system whether it's a
gaming machine or a workstation that you
might find some kind of a WD black
storage solution and this is the H frame
additional eat from komplette extreme
and what's cool about this particular
system other than the fact that it's
great for high performance applications
is that it is able to passively cool not
only everything inside it if you get a
good angle at this I'm going to go ahead
and tilt it over here and hopefully I'm
not going to like break it or anything
but check that out it is a very open air
flow system and because it is
constructed from pieces of aluminum you
can see that the cooling solution over
here for the drive because remember
blacks do not operate as cool as
something like a green or red drive the
cooling solution allows these aluminum
pieces to go right up against the drive
and dissipate the heat passively into
the rest of the case which leads us to
the traditional one if you loved the
caviar back when WD had that branding
then you'll pretty much love the blue
because it's an extension of it it's
only available in capacities up to one
terabyte which by today's standards
might not seem like for you know the
savvy you know developed market consume
like that impressive especially when the
black is available with up to 4
terabytes in a single consumer grade
device but for emerging markets where
they don't necessarily have the need for
an as special drive or they don't need a
five millimeter slim drive or a seven
millimeter slim drive because they're
not using those kinds of devices yet
Blue makes a lot of sense because here
you go the original the original
award-winning desktop hard drive quality
and reliability it's been around forever
the technology may not be cutting edge
but that's almost the beauty of it is
that it's not cutting edge it's
something that we're very familiar with
at this point now something you might
not be familiar with at this point is
the fact that not only the blue but
every WD hard drive comes with a copy of
WD acronis true image comes with it for
free I had no idea the fact that I've
never heard of this was like
unbelievable because the great thing
about acronis is that it works a lot of
the bundled drive cloning software
that's out there doesn't work or its
buggy or it crashes or whatever else I
wouldn't trust it it's powered by
acronis yay thumbs up anyway guys don't
miss any of our computex 2013 coverage
and don't forget to check out all of our
WD videos because the more views we get
the more awesome stuff we get to give
away after the show